-1. How does a teacher open a lesson?
2. What do you think about planning for teaching?
3. Why do you think planning is important?
4. What positives and negatives do you think planning brings?
5. What different types of planning can you see yourself doing?
6. What is mental planning?
7. As a teacher, how will you prepare yourself for teaching?
-8. What does it mean to ‘think on your feet’? Why do you need to do this?
9. How does a teacher close a lesson? Should the closing relate to the introduction?

10. How does a teacher know whether the students learned what he/she wanted them to learn?
My supervising teacher has been seeking feedback on a continual basis throughout his lessons and through the week. Lectures have been largely student driven, so that the level of understanding of the students is always apparent. Effort is made to draw all students into the conversation. Students who are reluctant to offer opinions on the current topic are queried directly for small pieces of input - agreements or disagreements with different ideas put forth by classmates, etc.

Besides lectures, students have regularly been doing seatwork. During seatwork, students are closely monitored for understanding, and there is a continual effort made to enable students to take responsibility for their own learning.

Finally, most of the students under my supervising teacher have written at least one quiz in the few days that I've been at the school. The results of these quizzes have guided the instruction and discussions that followed.

-1. Are your observations consistent with your memories of school and classrooms?
2. Is the use of classroom space and building space different? How has it changed?
3. Has the school schedule changed? What do you remember about school schedules?
4. How many different roles and responsibilities do you remember from the schools you attended? Are they the same in your introductory internship school?
5. What do you understand by ‘instructional time’? How do you remember instructional time as a student in school? Is it the same or different as you see, hear, think and feel your introductory internship school?
-6. Were you engaged in extracurricular activities in school? How do they compare with your introductory internship school? What is the value of such activities?
7. How are your school and community related? Do you believe it is an important relationship?
8. What do you think is meant by ‘student engagement’? As a student, how were you engaged in classes? How is engagement in the introductory internship school similar to or different from your experience as you remember it?
9. How do you describe an effective learning environment? Describe an effective learning experience from your days as a student.

I can recall a lesson, I believe I was in grade seven, where the class was led on an activity to 'discover' the mathematical constant pi. The format of the lesson was to use string and rulers to measure the circumference (distance around) and diameter (distance across) of a number of circular objects of different size, and to record these values and the value of their ratio in a table.

After taking the measurements of their first circle, groups did their calculations to fill the last column of their table (Circumference divided by Diameter) with a value somewhere in the neighborhood of 3.14, off in one direction or the other due to measuring errors. After taking their second set of measurements, the calculation would reveal a very similar result, again imperfect due to measuring errors. Some students jumped on this similarity, and reasoned that the result would be the same for circles of any size, and that the differences observed were random artifacts of their string-and-ruler measuring system. Others suspected that the observed trend (the ratio had grown, or shrunk, for different groups) would continue as the circles being measured got bigger or smaller. Others didn't think there was any knowable connection at all, and that new ratios would be found as we investigated new circles. As groups progressed and measured more circles, a consensus formed around the first camp. Some students then began to lobby for only taking one measurement from each circle (we had a lot of circles to measure), and using the newly found constant value to calculate the other missing measurement - other students argued that this violated the spirit of the instructions.

This lesson was effective for a number of reasons. First, it provided an opportunity for students to move from a physical understanding (measuring and holding) to both an abstract concept (that lengths of a shape that is scaled retain their relative measures) and an unforgettable introduction of a new term and its value (pi = 3.14159... my own group had settled on 3.12). Second, the room was buzzing throughout the activity. This was reasonably fun for a math class - it involved string, scissors, manipulatives, and, as it turned out, clever observation, conjecture, and debate.

10. You are learning about educational relationships. What have you observed about the ways that teachers relate to students daily? What conclusions can you draw about the teacher-learner relationship? Is this relationship the same as when you were in school? How has it changed?
-11. What are some of the challenges in motivating students today? What motivated you when you were in school?
12. What effective classroom management techniques have you observed being used by teachers? Why do you think these approaches were successful?



Activity 2 – The Engaged Learner
(Due: Monday, October 12, 2015)

Meaningful and engaged learning addresses the role of teachers and their students in a unique way. Teachers become facilitators of learning and co-learners with students in their classrooms. Teachers are not simply givers of information. Teachers also act as guides to finding information, demonstrators of certain skills, and models of reflection. Teachers raise questions, mediate differing perspectives, and challenge assumptions. Classroom students explore concepts, apply skills and reflect upon their discoveries. They also become teachers themselves by integrating what they’ve learned. Hence, they become knowledge generators in their own right.

As interns in the Intermediate/Secondary program you will make the transition from intern to teacher in the classroom. As such, you begin to understand the nature of student engagement and to examine the different ways that teachers engage their students.

In the first five days of the introductory internship, you will have the opportunity to observe teachers in different disciplines and learning environments. In 250-300 words, identify and describe three ways in which teachers you have observed engaged the students in their classroom.

In your D2L Activity 2 Forum, post your ideas on effective ways to engage learners. Include what you consider the criteria for engagement.
